http://www.chmaas.handshake.de/delphi/freeware/xvi32/xvi32.htm#download

Overview

XVI32 is a freeware hex editor running under Windows 9x/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7. The name XVI32 is derived from XVI, the roman notation for the number 16. XVI32 and all of its components are developed by myself.
The current release 2.55 is available since June 26, 2012. It comes with a complete online help and requires only 1.02 MB of hard disk space. There is no setup program needed - just unzip the downloaded archive to your hard disk! XVI32 doesn't write any data to your registry.

XVI32 is used by thousands of people all over the world. It was included in books like the Hacker's Guide. Even people at Microsoft ™ do use XVI32! If you don't believe me, look at http://support.microsoft.com/kb/835840/EN-GB/.

Features

XVI32 has the following main features. Especially note the highlighted advantages of XVI32.
XVI32 is a portable application, i.e. no setup program is needed, you can run XVI32 from your USB stick, no data is written to the registry
data inspector to view decoded numbers (see screen shot; can be turned off).
Has built-in script interpreter.
Easily works with huge files. Try to open a 60 MB sized text file with some other hex editor (not to speak about Wordpad), then use XVI32... If you don't have such a huge text file, use my freeware tool RndFile to create one
XVI32 allows to edit files up to 2 GB (enough virtual memory provided, of course)
For your convenience, XVI32 stores settings and last used search strings etc. in XVI32.INI file
Progress indication in percent for most operations
You can abort nearly all operations (reading/writing files, search, replace, print...)
Display of both text (ASCII/ANSI) and hexadecimal representation
Two synchronous cursors in text and hex area
Fully resizeable window (change number of rows and columns)
Font and font size adjustable
Overwrite or insert characters
Insert text or hex string n times
Switch byte offset (address) of first byte between 0 or 1 to examine also record structure of plain text files
Search text or hex string, e.g. find "this text" or find "0D 0A"
Simplified search for Unicode Latin (UTF-16) strings
Search optionally with joker (wildcard) char that will match any character, e.g. find "A.C" or "00 2E 2E 00" where "." = "2E" (user-defined) stands for any character
Fast searching algorithm (Quicksearch) for both search directions (down/up)
Count occurences of text or hex string
Replace text or hex string, e.g. replace "0D 0A" by "0A" or replace "0D 0A" by text "EOL"
Extremely fast "replace all" mode (if needed, additional memory is allocated beforehead, not at every single replacing operation)
Menu item Shredder data to overwrite all bytes of a file with binary zeroes
Auto-fill feature to copy bytes from current address into input field for hex string using right arrow key
Character conversion using self-defined character table
Easy converting of text to hex string in dialogs (e.g. "abc" -> "61 62 63")
Decoding and encoding of 1, 2, 4, and 8 byte integers or 4/8 byte floats in 2 possible byte orders
Bit manipulation (view or set bits)
Open file in Read Only Mode (e.g. if opened by another application or to avoid unintentional modifications)
Insert file contents into file
Write block to file
Copy, move or delete block
Clipboard support
Goto address (absolute or relative up/down)
Up to 9 named bookmarks
Enter jump width and jump up/down (useful for files with fixed record length)
Patch BORLAND PASCAL 7.0 EXE files for execution on processors > 200 MHz
Printing with preview or print to file
Simplified search for Unicode Latin (UTF-16) strings
Command "Reload" to open current file again
Easily access most recently used files
And last, but not least: XVI32 is free!